.\" Manpage for caparoc_commander
.\" Copyright (c) 2026 Markus Werle — MIT License
.TH CAPAROC_COMMANDER 1 "March 2026" "caparoc_commander 0.5.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
caparoc_commander \- command\-line tool for Phoenix Contact CAPAROC systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B caparoc_commander
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B caparoc_commander
communicates with Phoenix Contact CAPAROC circuit\-breaker systems over Modbus
TCP.
It exposes every register documented in the CAPAROC Modbus register map and
provides high\-level convenience commands for device management, monitoring and
configuration.
.PP
Multiple action flags can be combined in a single invocation; they are executed
in the order given on the command line.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Connection
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-ip\fR \fIADDRESS\fR
IP address of the CAPAROC device (default: \fB192.168.1.2\fR).
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR \fIPORT\fR
Modbus TCP port (default: \fB502\fR).
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-timeout\fR \fISECONDS\fR
Connection timeout in seconds (default: \fB3\fR).
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable debug output. Prints connection details and the parsed command\-line
options.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show all available options and exit.
.SS Register Discovery
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
List every register in the CAPAROC register map.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-register\fR \fIADDRESS\fR
Show detailed information about a single register.
\fIADDRESS\fR is given in hexadecimal (e.g.\& \fB0x0010\fR).
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-search\fR \fIPATTERN\fR
Search registers by name using a case\-insensitive substring match.
.SS Generic Register Access
.TP
\fB\-\-read\-uint16\fR \fIADDRESS\fR
Read a single UINT16 register at the given hex address.
.TP
\fB\-\-read\-uint32\fR \fIADDRESS\fR
Read a single UINT32 register at the given hex address.
.TP
\fB\-\-read\-string32\fR \fIADDRESS\fR
Read a STRING32 (16\-word) register at the given hex address.
.TP
\fB\-\-write\-uint16\fR \fIADDRESS VALUE\fR
Write \fIVALUE\fR to the UINT16 register at \fIADDRESS\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-write\-uint32\fR \fIADDRESS VALUE\fR
Write \fIVALUE\fR to the UINT32 register at \fIADDRESS\fR.
.SS Coil Access
.TP
\fB\-\-read\-coil\fR \fIADDRESS\fR
Read the status of a Modbus coil.
.TP
\fB\-\-write\-coil\fR \fIADDRESS STATE\fR
Write a Modbus coil. \fISTATE\fR can be \fBon\fR, \fBoff\fR, \fBtrue\fR,
\fBfalse\fR, \fB1\fR or \fB0\fR.
.SS Device Information
.TP
\fB\-\-print\-device\-info\fR
Print device information including modules, product names and channels.
.TP
\fB\-\-num\-connected\-modules\fR
Get the number of currently connected modules.
.TP
\fB\-\-product\-name\-power\-module\fR
Get the product name of the Power Module.
.TP
\fB\-\-product\-name\-module\fR \fIN\fR [\fIN\fR ...]
Get the product name for one or more modules (1\(en16).
.TP
\fB\-\-product\-name\-quint\fR
Get the product name of the QUINT Power Supply.
.SS System and Channel Status
.TP
\fB\-\-get\-system\-status\fR
Show system\-level status including voltage, current, temperature and global
status flags (undervoltage, overvoltage, cumulative errors, etc.).
.TP
\fB\-\-get\-channel\-status\fR \fIMODULE CHANNEL\fR
Show detailed status flags for a specific channel (80% warning, overload,
short circuit, hardware error, voltage error, etc.).
.TP
\fB\-\-get\-load\-current\fR \fIMODULE CHANNEL\fR
Get the actual load current for a specific channel in amps and milliamps.
.SS Channel Control
.TP
\fB\-\-control\-channel\fR \fIMODULE CHANNEL STATE\fR
Switch a channel on or off. \fISTATE\fR is \fBon\fR or \fBoff\fR.
.SS Nominal Current Management
.TP
\fB\-\-get\-nominal\-current\fR \fIMODULE CHANNEL\fR
Read the configured nominal current for a channel.
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-nominal\-current\fR \fIMODULE CHANNEL VALUE\fR
Set the nominal current for a channel to \fIVALUE\fR amperes.
.TP
\fB\-\-unlock\-nominal\-current\fR \fIMODULE CHANNEL\fR
Unlock nominal current parametrization by clearing both the global lock and
the per\-channel lock.
.SS Reset Commands
.TP
\fB\-\-reset\-application\-params\-power\-and\-cb\fR
Reset application parameters for the Power Module and all Circuit Breakers.
.TP
\fB\-\-global\-channel\-error\-reset\-all\-cb\fR
Perform a global channel error reset for all Circuit Breakers.
.TP
\fB\-\-error\-counter\-reset\-all\-cb\fR
Reset the error counters for all Circuit Breakers.
.TP
\fB\-\-reset\-application\-params\-quint\fR
Reset application parameters for the QUINT Power Supply.
.SH EXAMPLES
List all registers:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
caparoc_commander \-l
.fi
.RE
.PP
Search for voltage\-related registers:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
caparoc_commander \-s voltage
.fi
.RE
.PP
Print device information:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
caparoc_commander \-\-print\-device\-info
.fi
.RE
.PP
Read the system status and channel 2 of module 1:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
caparoc_commander \-\-get\-system\-status \-\-get\-channel\-status 1 2
.fi
.RE
.PP
Turn off module 1 channel 3:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
caparoc_commander \-\-control\-channel 1 3 off
.fi
.RE
.PP
Unlock and set nominal current:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
caparoc_commander \-\-unlock\-nominal\-current 1 1 \-\-set\-nominal\-current 1 1 4
.fi
.RE
.PP
Connect to a device at a non\-default address:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
caparoc_commander \-i 10.0.0.50 \-p 5020 \-\-get\-system\-status
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred (connection failure, invalid arguments, device error).
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
Project repository: \fIhttps://github.com/daixtrose/caparoc_commander\fR
.PP
Phoenix Contact CAPAROC documentation:
\fIhttps://www.phoenixcontact.com/en\-us/products/caparoc\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Markus Werle
.SH LICENSE
MIT License. See the LICENSE file in the source distribution.
